README.md, before:

# bc-map

![Bezier City](map.png)

Creates the Bezier City Map.

To make the map data [`city.json`](city.json) and to get a png image of the city run `node render.js` 

The `grabber.js` script was used for making the video
[Optismo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I4Y2nU5avpM) from
the webpage in the `public` dir.

# How the city is made

The `city` is made up of `streets`. Each street has a unique ID.

There are different types of streets:

* `bezier streets` which have the shape of a Bezier Curve
* `diagonal streets` which cut across the `bezier streets`
* `cross streets` which are no longer used

If you just make the `bezier` streets the city looks like this:

![Just Bezier Streets](assets/just_curves.png)

These are just used to decide where to put the `diagonal` streets:

![Diagonal Streets](assets/just_diagonals.png)

A Street has two sides to it. These are called `parallels` and are refered to as the `plus`
and `minus` parallel:

![Parallel Sides](assets/add_parallels.png)

When two streets meet it creates a `junction`. These are the red dots in the image below:

![Junctions](assets/add_junctions.png)

We want to know where the intersection of the two `parallels` of a street occur so we can
stop rendering the parallel street edge when it hits that of another. We then use this 
information to split the existing long streets into shorter streets.

The code here is a bit _bruh_. You have to call three functions in order for it to work.
Needs some TLC:

```
city_builder.add_junctions();
city_builder.intersect_parallels();
city_builder.split_streets();
```

`split_streets` is not very well named as it doesn't actually split the streets.
Rather it creates `lot_edges` which when put together create `lots` which are the
bounded areas of real estate made up from the result of splitting the streets. 
More work required here.

![Lot Edges](assets/lot_edges.png)

The next step is to bind the `lot_edges` together into discreet `lots`:

![Lots](assets/lots.png)

Note that in this image each lot has a single colour wheras in the `lot_edges` image above
each edge had its own colour.

Each lot keeps track of the length of its perimiter. The idea behind this was the size of the
lot could be considered when lazy loading them into a 3D view. That is smaller lots would be
left unrendered if they were further away from the viewer. This ties in with the `squares`
which we'll come to in a minute.

Lots contain buildings. The code for adding the buildings is a bit _sus_. It's putting _some_
of them on the map:

![Buildings](assets/buildings.png)

Working on that :-)

# Copyright

(C) Copyright 2023 Peckham Data Centre Ltd. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Added note on WIP of buildings in lots

README.md, after:

# bc-map

![Bezier City](map.png)

Creates the Bezier City Map.

To make the map data [`city.json`](city.json) and to get a png image of the city run `node render.js` 

The `grabber.js` script was used for making the video
[Optismo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I4Y2nU5avpM) from
the webpage in the `public` dir.

# How the city is made

The `city` is made up of `streets`. Each street has a unique ID.

There are different types of streets:

* `bezier streets` which have the shape of a Bezier Curve
* `diagonal streets` which cut across the `bezier streets`
* `cross streets` which are no longer used

If you just make the `bezier` streets the city looks like this:

![Just Bezier Streets](assets/just_curves.png)

These are just used to decide where to put the `diagonal` streets:

![Diagonal Streets](assets/just_diagonals.png)

A Street has two sides to it. These are called `parallels` and are refered to as the `plus`
and `minus` parallel:

![Parallel Sides](assets/add_parallels.png)

When two streets meet it creates a `junction`. These are the red dots in the image below:

![Junctions](assets/add_junctions.png)

We want to know where the intersection of the two `parallels` of a street occur so we can
stop rendering the parallel street edge when it hits that of another. We then use this 
information to split the existing long streets into shorter streets.

The code here is a bit _bruh_. You have to call three functions in order for it to work.
Needs some TLC:

```
city_builder.add_junctions();
city_builder.intersect_parallels();
city_builder.split_streets();
```

`split_streets` is not very well named as it doesn't actually split the streets.
Rather it creates `lot_edges` which when put together create `lots` which are the
bounded areas of real estate made up from the result of splitting the streets. 
More work required here.

![Lot Edges](assets/lot_edges.png)

The next step is to bind the `lot_edges` together into discreet `lots`:

![Lots](assets/lots.png)

Note that in this image each lot has a single colour wheras in the `lot_edges` image above
each edge had its own colour.

Each lot keeps track of the length of its perimiter. The idea behind this was the size of the
lot could be considered when lazy loading them into a 3D view. That is smaller lots would be
left unrendered if they were further away from the viewer. This ties in with the `squares`
which we'll come to in a minute.

Lots contain buildings. The code for adding the buildings is a bit _sus_. It's putting _some_
of them on the map:

![Buildings](assets/buildings.png)

Working on that :-). The test for adding the buildings can be run with:

```
test -- -t 'adds buildings to the lot'
```

Currently it seems to only want to add buildings to one edge of the lot:

![One edge of the lot](assets/building_with_lots.png)

# Copyright

(C) Copyright 2023 Peckham Data Centre Ltd. All rights reserved.
